1.1iRAD
The Integrated Road Accident Database (iRAD) Project is an initiative of the Ministry of Road Transportand Highways (MoRTH), Government of India and is funded by World Bank, with objective to improveroad safety inthecountry.
Toachievethis,establishmentofanaccurateanduniformroadaccidentdatacollectionmechanismfromall over India, is required. For this purpose iRAD mobile & web application is developed. This is followedby training & handholding support to stakeholder departmental users through state / district roll outmanagers & master trainers. Beta version of iRAD application is being launched in 59 lighthouse districtsof 28 pilot states i.e. Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh
on15thFebruary,2021.Thiswillfacilitateroadaccidentdatacollectionby4stakeholderdepartmentsPolice,Transport, Highways & Health Departments following Standard operating procedure. Through collectionof road accident data from all over the country, road accident database will be developed. The collecteddata will be analysed using different data analytics technique for identification of accident prone
areasandcausesoftheaccidents.Theanalysisoutputwillberepresentedinappropriatedashboards,accessibleto higher authorities of stakeholder departments and MoRTH. And accordingly strategy will be formedforreductionofnumberofroadaccidentinIndiaandenhanceroadsafety.NICSI&IITMadrashavebeenjointly entrusted to carry out design, Development, Training, and implementation of iRAD project, alongwith research&analysisactivities.
NICSI is responsible for Development of iRAD mobile (Android and iOS) & web application to facilitatecollection & analysis of road accident data, establishing the required cloud infrastructure / Server setupanditsmaintenance,trainingtousers/stakeholders,establishmentofhelpdesk&ProgramrolloutacrossIndia. IITM is associated with architecture designing, organizing Stakeholder conferences, developmentoftrainingcontentandtrainingoftrainers/master trainers,research&data Analyticsactivities.iRADprojectimplementationstartedthrough2daysorientationprogram&iRADmobile/webapplication(alpha version) demonstration / training for stakeholder departments of selected fifty nine lighthousedistricts (selected by the respective states). Due to COVID-19 situation, the Orientation Programme wasconducted online through Video conferencing with the support of MoRTH, NIC/NICSI and IIT Madras. Allthe States were requested to share the details of their relevant existing applications for data integrationwith iRAD, and also to share existing Geospatial data (jurisdiction, location of offices, road network etc.),designationhierarchy/masterdirectoryandotherrelevantdetails.
The stakeholder departmental users were provided with alpha version of iRAD application, user manualandusercredentialsandtheuserswererequestedtoprovidefeedbackthroughOnlinefeedbackmechanism or directly through feedback option in the iRAD application. Based on the User feedback,common APIs & supporting documents are developed for easy integration with existing applications ofuserdepartmentsandbasedonfeasible/suitableuserfeedbackiRADapplicationismodified/enhancesandbetaversionisbeinglaunchedon15thFebruary,2021 lighthousedistrictsofpilotstatesof India.
